what's going on guys assalamualaikum
welcome to amigos code in this video i
want to teach you about rabbitmq
this video is part of the microservices
series so far you've been learning about
microservices how to connect to each
other and you kind of have a good
understanding
on
the microservice architecture and
currently our application
doesn't really cope with failures
and when you know other parties such as
twilio or firebase are experiencing
problems so currently
you know if there is a problem somewhere
else our application will fail all
together so let me teach you about
rabbitmq and next week i'm also going to
teach you how to
uh use kafka so this is something that
you guys have been uh asking for some
time now so today you're going to learn
about rabbitmq next week i'm going to
teach you about kafka
before i continue
go ahead and literally take two seconds
i don't know why i keep on saying two
seconds
but anyways two seconds
smash that like button and comment down
below literally just say anything just
say hi
or any video that you want to see next
or any questions that you might have if
you're not part of the amigo squad
community go ahead and join both discord
as well as private facebook group
and without further ado let's go ahead
and learn about rabbitmq
so far we have this implementation in
here where we have the load balancer
customer fraud
and also notification
now
in here we have got no
asynchronous communication
within these microservices so fraud and
our customer to notification
now
let's say that notification takes let's
say
10 seconds
to send a notification to our customers
now this means that from the time that
clients are using our application
there will be a delay of 10 seconds in
total plus some milliseconds and what
not but in general 10 seconds
now this is a very bad user experience
so maybe twilio is having an incident or
firebase they're having an incident
and they can't really deliver messages
for now and it's taken them 10 seconds
now you can see that
we are depending on twilio and or
firebase
because this call right here from
customer
to notification it doesn't have to be
immediate so it can have a delay
right so whether the customer receives
the notification or sms
after one second
two seconds three seconds one minute it
doesn't really matter what matters is
from the point that
when the customer registers into our
system
in here customer talks to fraud
so this score right here cannot be
asynchronous because
we need to check whether it's a
fraudster or not if it's not
then this call right here indeed can be
a synchronous
because we don't depend
uh for any other checks to be performed
currently this is a problem that we need
to solve
even more let's say that
customer right here
is sending lots of traffic and we only
have one notification instance
now what happens if
notification gets too busy
well the notification won't be able to
handle the requests coming from customer
nor from fraud it's just going to be too
much well you might be wondering okay
maybe we can add a second instance so
just like that well it is fine but again
still a problem because you don't know
whether this will be enough
and the same let's say that you kind of
want to have 10 servers for notification
now this is
not using resources correctly because
one it doesn't scale correctly and also
things are not a synchronous and even
worse
let's say that we kind of need to
perform
an upgrade on notification so we found a
bug
and in the meantime a bunch of requests
are coming through
now if notification so in here so if we
get rid of notification
then it means that the entire call from
here
to
customer fraud
and
in here notification zero instances this
will fail
and at this point we already
registered the customer and the only
thing that we need to do is just to send
the notification but if notification is
not up and running then the customer
will be created and the response that
the client will get
is a 500
and you can see that this is not
feasible right
so this is pretty much
what a message queue
allows us to deal with next let me show
you the example where we slow down
notification and see what happens
within intellij i do have all of the
micro services up and running so if i
click on run you can see that i do have
customer fraud as well as notification
now let's send a request to the api
gateway
and before the request reaches
notification
let's stick a breakpoint in here
so
notification is running in debug mode
and i've got this breakpoint in here so
let's
open up postman and in here
we're going to send this payload to the
api gateway which is listening on poor
and
from here you can see that this is very
quick so it takes about
941 milliseconds
um
give or take right
so this is when the request
goes from one end to the other
now if i send this request
so this actually took me to this
breakpoint
and now let me go back yet to
postman
and have a look
this request
right here is hanging
now what i'm trying to simulate is
the case where
the request reached notification and by
the way this is without the message
queue right here
so the request reached notification
and now let's say that twilio is taking
forever or firebase
they are taking forever to process our
notification
now you can see that postman is actually
hanging in here so it's saying send a
request and it's waiting waiting and
waiting forever
now if i
oops i was just going to basically
uh remove the break point but i can see
that this probably was a timeout and
before i send the request so let me just
go to
uh notification and in here let me just
resume this and eventually it sends the
notification
but let me go back yet again
and let me send
so let me just wait for a second
and
you'll see that
so let's just say that twilio was having
a bad day and they took some time to
process the notification
now it worked
let's just resume
back to postman and have a look
18 seconds to process our request which
is insane so you can see that
we have a bottleneck in here now within
zipkin you can see that in here i do
have the calls so this one was the first
one that took some time
and then this one was the one that took
18 seconds so if i click on show in here
now i want to check this out
so the request from the api gateway took
18 seconds
customer
made a request to fraud
and have a look fraud you can see this
line right here which is barely visible
so this was super quick so if i try and
click on that
and have a look
fraud controller and if you show all
annotations you can see more information
but this was really quick so this call
right here was very quick
and the problem really
lies within notification which is taking
18 seconds i will look this line is
actually all the way
through the end so this is the
bottleneck so you can see also why
having zipkin
is really important because we can
visualize all of this stuff now this is
when the message queue comes to rescue
so at this point
if we stick the request inside of the
queue it returns an acknowledgement back
to the sender in this case customer
and then if notification is taking a
while
then basically we don't
have to wait for 18 seconds as you've
seen right because we know that
eventually the notification will be
processed
so this is why we need to use a message
queue if you have any questions please
do let me know otherwise let's move on
so when it comes to decouple
microservices and provide a
synchronicity between them as well as
brazilians there are a couple of big
players in this field one of them is
apache kafka now apache kafka is open
source and i believe it was initially
developed by the guys at linkedin
and it's basically used by a lot of
companies so it provides high throughput
it's scalable
one cool feature here is that it has
permanent storage
so you can store streams of data safely
in a distributed
durable fault tolerant cluster in here
so something that rabbit mq for example
does not provide then is also high
available so you can stretch clusters
efficiently over availability zones or
connect separate clusters across
geographic regions
now kafka on its own it's a big big
beast i have to admit
but still i'm going to basically show
you how you're going to use kafka with
spring ball at a later stage then what
we have is
rabbitmq so rabbitmq is the most widely
developed open source message broker for
this course we're going to begin with
rabymq due to its simplicity of getting
started
understanding its concept
and the integration with springboard
will be really straightforward as you'll
see
we also have amazon sqs so amazon sqs
stands for
simple queue
service
it's a fully managed message queuing
service that enables you to decouple and
scale microservice distributed systems
and serverless applications so if you
are deploying your applications to
aws then this is a great solution
because it's fully managed
now one disadvantage of using sqs is
that let's say that you want to port
your microservice architecture
to
google cloud so recently
there were a couple regions of aws that
were down for example
now in this case if you are deploying to
multi-clouds i.e you're deploying to aws
as well as azure and maybe google cloud
you know let's say that you've managed
to deploy to all those three at once
right
so
it's it's a very difficult job i'm not
gonna lie but let's just say that you've
managed to do it
now
if you are tied to
sqs
then you can't really move across
any other cloud provider because sqs is
aws specific whereas maybe if you are
running your own kafka cluster or
rabbitmq
then you have more flexibility in here
so usually you'll see that you have
teams that are dedicated for making sure
that
your cluster i.e you know either using
kafka or rabbit mq that these are always
up and running because again if they go
down
so in here so if you lose
your message queue
then you can see that again so if this
goes
then you have a big big problem
but usually
it shouldn't be a problem because when
running kafka or rabbit mq you want to
run in multi-ac for example right multi
availability zone so if one availability
zone is down then no matter what you
know things are still up and running so
you'd never have one single
message queue for all of your micro
services when running in production
and before i forget i'm going to leave a
link where you can learn more about the
differences between
apache kafka rabbitmq and sqs so that
you have a better understanding of these
tools
so you've seen why we need a message
queue
and amqp stands for
advanced message queueing protocol
and it's a protocol that enables
conforming clients applications to
communicate with conforming messaging
middleware brokers
now what is brokers
well a broker a broker receives messages
from publishers i.e these are
applications that publish messages
and they're also known as producers and
it routes them to consumers
i.e other applications
so the broker receives messages from
publishers
and it routes them to consumers
now since this is a network protocol
the publishers consumers and the broker
can all reside on different machines
so you can see how
you can decouple your applications so in
here you've seen that we have these
micro services they talk to each other
and currently if customer sends a
notification
to the notification microservice a
notification is down
or notification is having trouble
handling requests
then you can see that this can be a
bottleneck for our application and
instead what we do is we use rabbitmq in
this case
now i'm going to touch on rabbitmq but
later you'll also see kafka and i don't
want to go too much in detail about the
difference between these two
but for now let's just focus on rabbitmq
now the broker is everything that
resides within this rectangle in here so
the way it works is
a fraud or customer they want to send
notifications
to the notification microservice
they send a message and the message is
pretty much the payload right so the
json payload in our case
now this message here gets sent to the
exchange
and the exchange job
is to route the messages to the
according consumer
so in this case right here you can see
that this exchange
forwards these messages coming from
fraud as well as notification and then
notification consumes the messages from
this queue right here so fraud customer
are produces
the messages go through the exchange
the exchange routes to the queue
inside here this is the broker
and then outside we have the consumer
which can be any micro service that is
configured to pull messages from this
queue and with this architecture
we gain a ton
so one is lose coupling so fraud
customer notification as well as the
broker
they can leave on separate machines
and since we are following the
microservice architecture
this is actually loose coupling all of
these services together
the other thing is performance so we
gain performance now if notification is
down let's say that notification is down
right so let's say that we don't have a
consumer right here
now
the cool thing is that fraud and
customer
they can still
send notifications and at this point
right here the exchange right here
receives and then puts it inside of the
queue
then once notification is back up
it pretty much just reads the messages
that were hanging in the queue and the
benefit is that our clients don't even
experience that notification was down
also we can start sending messages
asynchronously so if let's say twilio is
taking 20
seconds or more
it doesn't really matter because
from our point of view
if any producer is able to publish
messages to the exchange
then we are good
we can also scale
in a way where if you need to run this
as a cluster two or more machines you
can absolutely do it and you should run
multi-az whenever possible also the
benefit of using rabbitmq is that it's
language agnostic so let's say that
fraud right here it's written in java
and notification is written in golang
for example so it doesn't really matter
right because all notification needs to
do is to be able to pull messages
and then transform the payload into
whatever struck for example if you are
using golang
or if you want to use python then it
basically takes the messages and
transforms it in a way that it wants now
messages also
they don't get removed from the queue
unless
the consumer
acknowledges that it has received the
message which is a good feature right so
if notification has issues reading from
the queue
and the broker doesn't receive an
acknowledgement
then the message is still intact
rabbitmq also offers as a management ui
which you'll see in a second
and the community has built lots of
plugins
and you can run rabbitmq on the cloud
which is a good thing right and you'll
see how we're going to run rabbit mq
through docker and as you know if you
dockerize your applications
then it's really easy for you to deploy
on whatever cloud provider you you want
whether it's aws azure google cloud lynn
node and others
so this is pretty much how everything
works next i want to dive deeper into
how producers are able to produce
messages as well as the different types
of exchanges
when producers want to send messages
these messages will first land inside of
the exchange
the exchange then
forwards the messages based on a routing
pattern
now this is possible
through the binding the binding
is what binds the exchange to a
particular queue so you can have as many
queues as you want
and you can have also as many exchanges
as you want but the thing is you can
attach multiple queues to
one exchange
now
this exchange right here has different
types
you can have a direct exchange
a fanout topic headers as well as one
which is special to rabbitmq and it's
the default and it's known as the
nameless exchange where the routing key
is equal to the queue name if i open up
intellij and in here this is some
configuration that you're going to learn
in a second but here i'm defining the
exchange that i want
i'm defining the queue that i want
and also the routing key
so here i'm saying internal notification
routing key
so this is the internal exchange that i
have
and i'm saying that if anything goes
through with this key
then i want to route it to this
notification queue
then the producer on the other hand all
he has to do is send the payload
to the exchange
providing the routing key
so providing the routing key so
and this is configured
through the binding to send to this
particular queue
so since you saw some code now this
should make sense
when the producer
sends a message to the direct exchange
which is this one right here
it means that the routing key as well as
the binding they have to be the same
so when they're the same if you send a
message so let's say that we have a
message so let's just take this guy
outside for example
if you send a message
it will land into the exchange and from
the exchange it will land into let's say
this
queue in here
right so this is when
the routing key is equal to the binding
then you can see that we have the fan
out exchange which means that if the
producer sends a message
this message will be found out so here
it will be sent to all queues
just like that it fans out the messages
so every
queue will receive the exact same
message
then we have the topic exchange and this
is mainly for
partial
matches
so when you send a message
if the routing key is
full dot bar
and then the binding so let's say that
you have a binding here
and let me just add some text
and this is full dot star
and when you send the message
in here you specify that you want to say
full dot bar
right here so this is a partial match
right so
full dot bar matches this binding
therefore this message will be sent
across in here
then you have the header exchange
which uses the message header instead of
the
routing key so obviously this is a
bigger decision that you need to make
according to your needs but this is
pretty much how it works and actually
almost forgot is that you have a special
exchange which is only specific to
rabbitmq and it's the nameless exchange
and this is when the routing key is
equals to the
queue name
so if you have
a message which has been sent and this
message right here has the routing key
as app b and then q
so because we have a queue with this
routing key it gets sent to this queue
right here and to be honest this is
pretty much how everything works
obviously you can grab the diagrams so
you can basically check for yourself but
if you have any questions please do let
me know
otherwise let's implement all of this
in order for us to have a rabbit mq
locally let's use docker
open up your docker compose.yaml
and within you can see that we have
postgres we have pg admin
zipkin
so right after it
let's just take this in here
and let's just paste that in
and this will be
rabbit mq just like that
then for the image
rabbit
mq
column and then let's just use the same
version so that if we have any breaking
changes things will still work so three
point nine dot
eleven
dash
and then management
and then dash alpine so we get the
smallest version
for container name this will be rabbit
mq
for ports
we want to expose
56 and then 72
so 56
the same on the other
side so the first port is the host and
the second is the container now this
port is what applications will be
connecting to ie microservices so if we
want to publish a message to eq
we're going to use this port then we
also want to expose
the 15 672
and this is the management
port just like that so that we can use
the management console and to be honest
this is everything and i've just noticed
that
this should be al
and then pine
so al and then pine
now let's open up our terminal
make sure that you are within the
working directory so ls you can see
dockercompose.yaml
now type docker
compose
up
dash and then d for detach
press enter
and this now you can see that
it pulled the image
and it has started
so for you if it doesn't pull as quick
as mine it's because i think my one was
cached but you can see that
the rabbitmq container is up and running
now let's take
this port so 15
6 7 2
and open up our web browser say
localhost
column and then 15
672.
press enter
and check this out so now the username
for this is guest
and the password is also guest
press enter
and i'm going to save this password
and tada you can see that we have
rabbitmq running locally now in here
there's a bunch of information so you
can see connections you can see channels
exchanges so
i've explained about exchanges as well
as cues so if i click on exchanges by
default we should see few exchanges
right here with different types
so these are defaults and we don't have
to worry about and if i click on cues
so you can see that we have no cues so
far if you have any questions getting
this far drop a message otherwise let's
move on
okie dokie i hope that you had fun
learning about rabbitmq and if you want
to learn
how to pretty much just pull everything
together
through the micro services that we've
been building so far
go ahead and roll on my course where it
is still at discount price
and literally this is the last week
before the price goes up
and
yeah i hope they had fun next week i'm
going to teach you about kafka this so
for now and i'll catch you in the next
one
you